# Monty Dawson CV

## About Me
I'm a creative web developer with three years experience of crafting user interfaces, both as part of dedicated software development teams and also as a freelancer. 
Over the past three years I've worked on a vast range of applications, from complex mapping applications utilising bleeding-edge frontend technology, to eye-catching and lightweight promotional sites. I'm most proficient with frontend technology and consider myself an expert in JavaScript, TypeScript, and SCSS. I also have experience of backend development, using PHP for CMS development, NodeJS to create RESTful APIs, and contributing to large Java codebases. Most recently I've been working on cross-platform mobile development, giving me experience with Ionic and Xamarin.
I'm an extremely quick learner, always keen to challenge myself, and will always fight to ensure that I'm providing the best solution to the user. 

## Experience

### 1Spatial - UI Developer (2016 - present)
1Spatial is a world-leader in spatial data management, maintaining a suite of products designed to enhance, validate and process spatial data, as well as working with customers to develop custom solutions to their spatial data needs. 
My role as UI developer saw me working on a range of different products and solutions, developing and maintaining complex frontend solutions across a number of teams. I worked to design and develop new solutions and products, collaborating with backend teams to create intuitive user interfaces using AngularJS, and Angular 5 that interface with RESTful APIs and web services such as Geoserver. More recently I have been focused on mobile development, exploring Ionic and WASM integration, and also working with Xamarin in C# and XAML.
As well as developing new solutions, I maintained and developed new features for 1Spatial's existing products, working with product managers and users to enhance the user experience and fix bugs. To ensure the quality of all 1Spatial's products I always ensured that all code was properly tested, writing unit tests using Jasmine, Karma and Jest, as well as writing UI tests using Selenium in Java.
During my time at 1Spatial I have focused on utilising new technology and frameworks to provide the best experience to the user, this drive saw me receive an internal '1Award' for Innovation at the end of 2017.

## Victoria Forms - eForms Consultant (2014 – 2016) 
My time at Victoria Forms sparked my interest in web-development. My role initially involved working closely with clients (mainly local governments) to develop and maintain their online forms - working to a very high level of precision and guarantying that all work signed-off was production-ready. As I developed my skills I began to get involved in maintaining and developing the JavaScript and CSS of the company’s main product – ensuring usability and good design. I was also tasked with updating the branding of key clients’ online forms interfaces – ensuring the efficiency of front-end code and that clients were happy with the look and feel of their forms.  I thoroughly enjoyed the opportunity to develop my skills at Victoria Forms, as well the opportunity to gain experience of project management and working directly with clients. During my time at the company I worked incredibly hard and spent considerable time learning outside of the office in order take on new responsibilities within my role.

## Freelance Web Developer (2015 - present)
Freelance Work – Web Developer (2015 - present) Outside of work I have made sure to keep learning and developing my skills by working on personal projects as well as taking on non-paid work as well. The best example of this is thewellhopton.org.uk, which I developed for a local Christian coffee shop. In order to learn as much as possible in the process, I didn’t use a front-end template, writing all JS and CSS from scratch. The site is hooked up to the PHP CMS Silverstripe, and hosted on AWS – all of which I implemented. I really enjoyed the challenges of this project – having to ensure that the website matched the existing branding of the coffee shop and also the efficiency of all code. My other work includes developing a number of personal projects – most recently a fully-featured real time todo list webapp, built on NodeJS, Angular and Postgres, and utilising WebSockets. 